JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump
is now under scrutiny for
possible obstruction of justice,
and he's fighting back.
This follows news reports that
special counsel Bob Mueller has
broadened his probe originally
focused on Russia
meddling in the election.
On Twitter today, the president
complained - - quote -- "They
made up a phony collusion
with the Russians story, found
zero proof, so now they go
for obstruction of justice.
Nice."
Later, Mr. Trump charged that
Hillary Clinton committed a list
of infractions, and was cleared
anyway.
There's also word that Vice
President Mike Pence has hired
outside legal counsel to deal
with the Russia investigations.
His office tells The Washington
Post that former U.S. attorney
Richard Cullen will handle
inquiries from
congressional committees
and the special counsel.
The president hired his own
private lawyer last month.
We will examine all of this, and
talk to the vice chairman of the
Senate Intelligence Committee,
Senator Mark Warner, right
after the news summary.
The U.S. Senate today
overwhelmingly approved
new sanctions against
both Iran and Russia.
The overall bill is aimed
at Iran's missile program.
An amendment expands sanctions
on Russia for meddling
in last year's election.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck
Schumer said today it sends a
message to Russian President
Vladimir Putin and
to President Trump.
SEN.
CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY), Minority
Leader: Not only did we pass
a new round of tough sanctions
for Russia's meddling
in our election.
We codified existing
sanctions into law, making
them harder to lift.
Any idea of the president's
that he can lift sanctions on
his own for whatever reason are
dashed by this legislation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Putin fired
back during a national
call-in show in Moscow,
and said the sanctions
say more about the
U.S. than about Russia.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through translator):
Why have they started to talk
about introducing these
sanctions with no grounds?
Of course it is evidence of
continuing internal political
struggle in the United States.
If there weren't other problems,
they would have thought up
something else to hold Russia
back, as it has always been, a
policy of holding Russia back.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will take
a closer look at the Senate's
sanctions bill a little later
in the program.
A leading Republican in the
House of Representatives,
Majority Whip Steve
Scalise, remains in critical
condition tonight after a
gunman shot him during a
congressional baseball practice.
A lobbyist who was wounded is
also in critical condition.
President Trump visited
Scalise in a Washington
hospital last night.
Today, at the White House, he
said Scalise's recovery will
be more difficult than people
thought.
DONALD TRUMP, President
of the United States:
He's in some trouble.
He's a great fighter and
he's going to be OK, we hope.
And Steve in his own way may
have brought some unity to
our long divided country.
And I have a feeling that Steve
has made a great sacrifice,
but there could be some unity
being brought to our country.
Let's hope so.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The gunman, James
Hodgkinson of Illinois, died
after being shot by police.
Meanwhile, the annual
congressional baseball
game is being played
tonight, raising money
for charity.
The American college student
released from North Korea, and
now in a coma, has a massive
loss of brain tissue.
Doctors at the University
of Cincinnati Medical
Center said today that
Otto Warmbier suffered
a severe neurological injury.
They could not say
if he was beaten.
Warmbier's father condemned
the North Koreans, but said
the family wants to move on.
FRED WARMBIER, Father of Otto
Warmbier: What I would say
to the North Korean regime, I
would say I'm so proud of
Otto, my son, who has been in
a pariah regime for the last 18
months, brutalized
and terrorized.
And he's now home
with his family.
And I'm just tremendously
proud of Otto.
His spirit is with us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The State
Department now says that a U.S.
diplomat who went to North Korea
to secure Warmbier's release
also contacted three other
Americans being held.
The department wouldn't
comment on their conditions.
In London, rescue crews have
pulled more bodies from a
burned-out apartment tower.
The death toll in Wednesday's
fire reached at least 17
today, amid rising outrage.
Paul Davies of Independent
Television News has this report.
PAUL DAVIES: A second dawn
brought no end to the agony.
There are no flames now, but
this smoldering shell that was
once home to so many families
still holds an unknown
number of their bodies.
Fire crews believe, in flats
not yet safe to enter, there are
a whole families who couldn't
get out or obeyed the
instruction to stay put.
Many, many remain missing.
And it could take weeks
to confirm their fate.
DANY COTTON, London Fire
Brigade: It's the upper floors
that will be more challenging
and will need some
additional shoring for us
to be able to get in there.
The size of this building,
it could take weeks.
I want to be realistic.
This is a very long process.
PAUL DAVIES: These images
show the destruction on the
ground floor of Grenfell Tower.
This is the area least affected
by that all-consuming fire.
As this photograph shows,
it gets worse as you go up.
Very few escaped
the higher floors.
If the initial response to
this tragedy was horror, as the
hours have passed, there have
been mounting questions
and mounting anger.
WOMAN: There is a
system in place.
That is the product.
That is it.
WOMAN: There's nothing at all.
Yes, but they're lying.
PAUL DAVIES: Labor's
leader visiting the area
heard the concerns of
residents who say fears
they'd expressed about the
tower's safety were ignored.
MAN: Someone has to
be held accountable.
Someone has to be
held responsible.
We don't want it kicked
to the long grass.
We don't want the government to
sort of hide with some hollow
platitude about lessons being
learned.
PAUL DAVIES: The prime minister
paid her own private visit to
Grenfell Tower this morning
and was criticized for meeting
only the emergency teams,
and not the local community.
AFAF BADR, London:
People are very angry.
People are crying.
People are lost, missing.
She's the prime minister.
Where is she?
PAUL DAVIES: London's mayor
visiting the scene said
anger was understandable.
SADIQ KHAN, Mayor of
London: We can see the
anger in the community,
justifiably so, because
many members of the
community have been saying...
WOMAN: Not just the community.
It's everyone outside as well.
MAN: Fed up with
these politicians.
No handshakes.
We want action, not handshakes.
PAUL DAVIES: Sadiq Khan said
the inquiry should be immediate
and that no one should have to
wait two years to find
out why this happened.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Both Britain's
national government and
local police have now
opened investigations
into the fire.
Islamist fighters in Somalia
attacked a popular restaurant
overnight and killed at least 31
people.
It happened in the country's
capital, Mogadishu, and
involved five gunmen.
The Al-Shabaab militants
detonated a car bomb, and then
stormed inside, taking hostages.
Witnesses said they shot
victims at point-blank range.
Somali security forces
finally killed the gunmen
early this morning.
Back in this country, jurors in
the Bill Cosby sexual assault
trial deliberated into the
evening again, after reporting
that they're deadlocked.
The judge in Norristown,
Pennsylvania, told
them to keep at it.
The 79-year-old Cosby is
accused of drugging and
molesting a woman in 2004.
And on Wall Street, the Dow
Jones industrial average lost
14 points to close below 21360.
The Nasdaq fell 29, and
the S&P 500 slipped five.